From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, our weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number three
59. Recorded live Thursday, January 31st, 2013.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by Tellerik offering the
best and developer tools and
support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training developers to
work smarter and now offering
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details@gesturepak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks to Phillip Kelly and
Martin Woodward developers on the
project. That's brought get support
dividual studio. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I'm on the phone with
Phillip Kelly and Martin Woodward.
And you guys were involved
in getting get into visual
studio. And I actually did
a write up on my
blog last week. That's pretty,
that's pretty slick. I did
not see that coming myself,
Martin. It was just a
long time in planning. Yeah,
it's been been going awhile.
I know we spoke a
long time ago about version
control and at the time
I was telling you that
I really want version control
to be transparent. And pretty
quickly we came to the
conclusion that the only way
you could do transparent version
control is going to be
fewer distributed version control workflow
because you get a repository
on your client machine. So
you can sneakily be doing
version control behind somebody's back
and they don't kind of
know it. And then you
can just sort of save
them when they need you.
You know, so, yeah, so
that was probably this time
when we really started looking
at it hard. And that's
why I kind of went
dark for awhile there and
just dug into this cause
I didn't want to, they
want to promise anything. And
so I knew we could
deliver it and have to
go figure out, you know,
exactly how we were going
to go build this, how,
what we should base it
on top of. And then
when we came to the
conclusion that that gate was
the way we had to
go figure out, you know,
can we, can we go
do this? Can we go
work with the open source
community and improve the support
on windows so that we
could, we could include this
library that we're using and
ship it inside. Now I
know that we supported material.
Some, some part of Microsoft
gave the mercurial folks money
and historically mercurial has been
a little bit friendlier to
use from the command line
on windows, but was it
just decided at some point
that kind of get is
winning? Just like when, just
like, I don't know. I
don't know if you remember,
but back in the day
when everyone was using CVS
and then SVN kind of
came along and said, look,
we're better. We're more Refined.
And then the CVS guys
just eventually had to realize
that it was over is
the same thing happening to
mercurial. Like it's always going
to be a niche, but
it didn't win. It's that
at a max of Yeah,
the material command line is
certainly easier to use, you
know, well, I find it
more easy to use it.
It's more Virgin control, you
know, gets more kind of,
it's a workflow tool for
handling files in a, in
a directed, a cyclic graph,
which is how, you know,
DVCS tool store history. And
you can do Virgin control
with it if you pick
the right workflow. But whereas
mercurial is, you know, it
definitely built ground up as
a version control tool, but
when we were actually looking
at it, the material architecture,
you know, it's also Python
based and stuff. And when
we were looking around the
market, we were, you know,
get, get has one in
terms of adoption is definitely,
you know, the adoption curve
of get is et cetera,
to not quicker than the
adoption curve of any other
distributed source control tool. And
more interestingly, every have a
distributive, very mutual tool that
isn't get is, you know,
kind of building it, interoperability
into it via, you know,
fast input, fast export type
of ways of putting the
repository over or, or at
the network layer as well.
They're also introducing compatibility with
get, so that was interesting
to us. Another data point
was get is being used
as a deployment protocol, more
and more, you know, developers,
FTP. I think you mentioned
it in your blog post
actually. Yeah, exactly. You know,
I, as your website, she
can push up a, get
repo to get it to
deploy. You know, you can
do the same with Barbara
and Heroku and Facebook and
things like that. So that
was fascinating. So now we're
coming to inclusion in any
DVCS too, but we were
able to bring to the
market not only needed get
interrupt, but it needed, I
needed to speak, get on
the network layer. And, you
know, Phillip can talk more
about like how get transports
over network layer. But basically
it just sends the, get
repository over the network. A
bunch of PAC files go
with the network and it
is very much the raw
get repositories that get sent
around. So now we're dealing
with the repository and we're
dealing with, you know, get
compatibility. We might as well
just go build, get, you
know, and, and go integrate
getting. And the only, the
only argument that people would
give you against doing that
is that they say, you
know, to get support on
hasn't traditionally had as good
support on windows. So, you
know, we're Microsoft, we, we
can fix that. So let's
go, let's go fix that.
And let's make it better
for windows developers and for
visual studio developers rather than
a problem from try and
compete. Well, surely some Viet
vice president somewhere must have
said, that's not going to
happen. Like that's a bad,
like they might just be
just because right. They would
just say, well, we don't
want to support, like, you
know what I mean? Like
there's always this Microsoft, we'll
just do it ourselves kind
of thing. Or at least
in the last, you know,
20 years ago there was
is, is that, is that
over? Are you guys really,
I mean, do you feel
like, I guess you have
a boss, your bosses, Brian,
Harry, right? He's the guy
in charge of version control.
Yeah. I think if it
hadn't been Brian, Harry is
the guy in charge of
version control for Microsoft and
his group kind of owns
all the IP around version
control. If this idea had
come out of a different
group, then maybe there could
have been politics at play.
But I think because it
was, cause it was, you
know, the people were all
source control nerds over at
the TFS team. So because
it was the source control
nerds coming up with the
idea, I think the kind
of, you know, trusted us
and it's been one of
those strange ones where we
kept expecting pushback. And then
every time we would go
to some meeting and show
some people what we were
thinking of doing, thinking they
would tell us that we're
crazy. They would just go,
wow, that's awesome. That's cool.
Go, go for it. Oh,
okay. Interesting. When I, when
I first heard about this,
I thought, okay, I guess
TFS goes away now. And
we just thought of, except
that that get is quote
unquote one, but then I
started thinking about it and
realized, and actually it was,
I think it was Brian Keller
that explained this to me,
that T TFS is not
just version control. It's actually
a whole pile of, you
know, ALM application, lifestyle management
stuff, and bug fixes and
a workflow and agile tools
and all this things and,
and source control is one
aspect of it. And your
guys' his goal was to
take the good stuff about
TFS and then make version
control more pluggable and get
was the one that you,
you know, the alternative. So
yeah. Is that right? It
was more so I think
one of the problems we've
got is people associate associate
TFS, the word TFS with
CF VC. We, you know,
we think of it as
the version control component inside
of TFS. So what people
think of TFS is just
the version control component, because
as a developer, that's the
thing that's most visible to
you, especially if you're, you
know, if, if there's a
bit of friction there in
terms of doing version control,
That's what I mean. If
I hear TFS, I hear
a centralized big, slow version
control. Exactly. Yeah. Well, I'll
go for centralized Virgin, which
I'll how about that? So,
yeah, and there's always going
to be the need for
centralized version TRO in the
next decade, centralized version control
isn't going away. You know,
there were repository types where
it's well suited for. There
are customer workflows that it's
well suited for. So, you
know, that's, that's there. And
we introduced in 2012 local
workspaces, which is, you know,
we've always had the traditional
checkin checkout kind of workflows
that works for some people
and keeps friction for others.
So we introduced local workspaces
in 2012, which is, you
know, allows you to, you
don't have to check the
files out first. It's an
added commit model. So you
don't have to check the
files, you 13, just add
them and see if you're
editing files outside of visual
studio. If he edits same
in notepad or whatever, or,
you know, sublime tax, it
just works. And then you
just commit them in. And
that's good. So that's great.
So now that's kind of
like, you know, COVID right.
The source safe model and
the SVN model, you've now
gone, you know, workflows you've
got available to you with
TFS. So then we had
a thing and it said,
well, what's the, what's the
next, you know, what's next?
And obviously distributed version control
workflows over the next exciting
thing. But the, the, the
thing about DVCS is it's
a completely different way of
thinking about version control, decentralized
version control is, you know,
it's almost like the switch
from, you know, for a
version control nerdy. It's almost
like the switch from object
orientated programming, you know, back
from functional programming, you have
to think about it very,
very differently in your brain.
And we did some experimentation
where we tried to, you
know, rather than have a
separate repository type gait repository
type, we tried some experiments
where we, where we kind
of bridged it, you know,
and kind of made, kinda
made TFS look like a
DVCS or trying to make
a DVCS looked like CFS
at the network layer. Well,
the problem with that is
it, it just becomes a
leaky abstraction. There are concepts
which are completely different in
distributed version control. You know,
the way you do branching,
the way you store history
is not linear in the
DVCS. So that's completely different
to, to centralized version 12.
And then in centralized version
control, you have always control
around past space security and
blah, blah, blah. And that
doesn't map well into DVCS
tools either. So yeah, rather
than force people to have
to force people down one
workflow, which we believe to
be the blessed workflow, we
wanted to give people the
choices of workflow, and more
importantly, allow people to use
different workflows, but use the
same set of work items
and the same set of
tasks and defects and test
cases and build automation and
agile planning use those same
tools, the same data, but
be able to link them
to both TFS check-ins and
get commands. The point that
you made at the beginning
where mercurial and other DVCS
is, are unapologetically source control
systems. Well get, is this,
like I said, directly, basic
darker, basic the graph or
this kind of like this,
this file system on top
of a file system that
you can use as source
control, if you want to,
it could cause some people
to say, Oh, well this,
this isn't, this is so
complex get is so complicated
that I couldn't go Make
a gooey on top of
it. You know what I
mean? So you could make
a gooey or UI on
top of a version control
system and that's been done
for years, but some people
could argue that to really
have the full power of
get, you need the command
line. Do you understand what
I'm saying? Yeah. And so
you really need the command
line if you really want
to do, you know, do
the craziness that you can
do and do whatever you
do have the ultimate power,
but that's always been the
case with version control. The
command line to version 12
has always been more powerful
than the giveaways they give
is just give you a
nice user friendly way of
doing the, you know, 90%
operations, you know, commit, commit,
push in a rebase, whatever.
But when you actually come
to do something, well, we
haven't got UI for this
yet, but I quite like
to, I quite like to
do some rebasing or do
some squashing of my local
commits before I push them
up to the repository. Cause
I like my, well again,
sorry, I'm going to be
pulling this more when we,
especially when we commit to
say an open source project,
like lip kit, too, we
really craft our commits and
really take a lot of
time over the craftsmanship of
archivists, almost like a mathematical
proof of the problem. We
want to push them up
in a logical way so
that when somebody reads the
commitments in order, they can
see the conclusion we came
to and why the code
is structured in the way
it is rather than just
giving them the snapshot, which
is the answer. And if
you want to have that
very, very fine level of
control, then yeah, you can
drop to the command line,
which is why we had
to make it essential that,
that, you know, the get
implementation inside visual studio, it
wasn't like a prior to
get wasn't anything particularly amazing,
you know, it's just get,
and we just provide a
nice, friendly, useful way of
using it inside visual studio
or nice friendly merge tools,
nice, easy ways of branching
and switching branches. And if
you make changes on the
command line, it just magically
XL inside BS instantly. Well,
and that gives me a
great segue over to Phillip
and his work, because you
said it's not proprietary. Get,
it's not like Microsoft get,
which would be evil. It's
a, it's built on top
of something called lib get
to, which is a, an
open source library. It's actually
a GPL library with a
linking exception that is written
in C it's written in
C it's completely portable. So
using the same library on
Linux, on windows. And in
fact, this is the library
that GitHub is using in
their clients for windows and
for Mac as well. So
where we're sharing code and
we're progressing together on adding
features and completeness into the
library, okay, so this is
portable C works anywhere. And
this is the thing that
most, most right now are
using To talk to get
me. You don't edit the
files yourself. You talk to
that API and then it
handles things, You know, I
would say it's up and
coming actually, you know, get
dot ECC or, or get
on on Lennox is a,
is a separate code base.
And many of the contributors
though to that get project
have agreed to relicense their
work into the lib, get
to process a project, including
Lena store volts. You know,
his work there is, is
free for us to use
an Olympia to project Libya
to is, is adding. What
it adds to get is
the ability to host it
as a library inside of
a, a larger program like
visual studio, get the actual
command line just comes up
and does its work. And
then, and then it goes
away the process terminates. So
that's what some of the
advantages of live get to
that we get. And so
live get to it's a,
it's a native good implementation.
It's not a Microsoft thing.
And then there's a thing
called lib, get to sharp
who's is that who owns
it? That's a set of
bindings. That's a set of
bindings. I guess it's a,
it's also something that we
contribute to that that GitHub
contributes to. And it's something
that I guess just also
some independent developers from around
the world contribute to, and
it's it's bindings for live
good too. That allow you
to use the power of
LiveChat two from C-sharp, which
is, you know, the language
that we know and love
to work in at Microsoft,
the simple, you know, manage
language, right? So we don't
have to take care of
all the problems of freeing
memory and everything. We get
garbage collection and it's, it's
fast developing. So it's great
that we have live, get
to sharp bindings for Lipka
to, to use You're writing
code, Phillip yourself in both
CNC sharp, cause you're, you're
writing code in visual studio
two to make the UI
and make things work. But
then you're also contributing and
see and lip get to
Right. We've got three layers
to it, right? You have
our, our proprietary get provider
and V6 tools that we
just released. And then they
include live good to sharp,
which is really just a
wrapper around lip. Good too.
There's not a whole lot
of logic and business logic
unlimited to sharp little get
to is the, is the
meat of the problem. It's,
you know, it's, it's the
C library that does all
the work. Okay. The, and
the visits, the visits, VSI
X, this is a visual
studio extension. This is the
thing that people will install
and it will keep itself
updated. It use, it comes
out of the visual studio
gallery. And this is what
gives you a in solution
Explorer, all of the, kind
of the context and the,
this is a new item
and this is a dirty
item and this item needs
to be committed and all
that kind of stuff. And
then puts get inside of,
of team Explorer, which is
where I'm used to seeing
TFS. Is that right? That's
right. Team Explorer is your
hub for using a team
foundation server it's, it's got,
you know, your work items,
page, your pending changes, page,
your builds page settings. And,
and so once you've installed
the, the get tools V6
on top of visual studio
with update installed, Depending changes
page replaced by the get
changes page, when you're using
a solution, that's part of
a good repository. If you're
using a solution as part
of a TFS version control
workspace, then you'll, you'll have
the same experience that you
have with visual studio without
the good tools, you'll have
the regular TFS pending changes
page there. And I don't
know if this is probably
not your space, but just
out of curiosity, if I
install this update to the
visual studio, 2012 dot two,
right now it's a preview,
will it, will it tell
me later to update to
the final version? Yeah. So
this is Martin update to
CTP. Those just update itself.
It, it just works. It
is a CTP though. So,
you know, while it will
update and you can update
to the RTM version, it
is a CTP. So it'll
be where you are using
the latest and greatest bleeding
edge bits. Okay, Cool. Cause
I know that we're in
sewing, pre-release stuff here and
I don't want to take
the chance that I'm going
to mess up my machine.
No, you shouldn't have to
repave your machine or anything,
but there might be bugs
in there that we didn't
know about. Okay. And then
when I install the, the
good stuff, it's not going
to go and install a
bunch of stuff in the
GAC and mess up my
machine. It's just a physics
that I can uninstalled just
by going into tools and
extensions and just right. Clicking
and saying on install, it's
not going to, it's not
scary or dangerous. It's just
basically a zip archive. And
it contains the right code.
It gets put in the
right place and it contains
it also contains live, get
to lip, get to sharp.
And it also contains the
source code for lip kits.
So if you wanted to
go look at the source
code about looking at straight
on, get help, it's got
everything in there. Okay, cool.
Now, one of the things
that I have noticed myself,
and this is to Philip,
when I'm doing work in,
in get and visual studio,
I usually go out to
the PowerShell and I use
a tool called posh, get
a PowerShell, get extensions by
Keith Dalby and friends. And
I will go and I'll
do updates and I'll switch
branches over in my, in
my command line. And then
I'll find that visual studio
will freak out and get
confused. And I have to
go and reload my project
and sometimes windows that are
open, get confused. So kind
of switching things out from
underneath visual studio tends to
confuse stuff. And I'm curious
now that you're going to
be switching branches in multiple
places, either from within VMs
or at the command line,
do we do anything to
make that suck less? We
do have some, some magic
that we apply when you
change branches from inside visual
studio, we're not going to
be able to apply it
when you're changing it from
outside of visual studio. But
when you're changing it within
visual studio using our branch
picker to change branches, save
all your window positions. And
we automatically reload the, if
the solution changed the whole
solution, all the items which
got changed, which were different
between the branch that you
were on and the branch
that then switched to. So
you shouldn't notice anything and
it should appear as if
nothing really happened. Your files,
you know, reloaded automatically. If
you had some dirty boppers
in the editor, then I
think we probably asked you
to save those before we
changed the branch. And of
course, if you know, if
there's a conflict, you know,
if the file that you
have an edit on is
different in the branch, do
you want to change to,
you'll get a message saying,
Hey, you can't change the
branches because this file is
different over there. You would
lose changes by doing so.
You need to make a
stash if you want to,
if you want to save
them. And so, you know,
when the historically Microsoft kind
of tends to move a
little slowly, but I understand
that you guys are doing
things a little differently now,
are you going to be
releasing stuff more often? I
mean, if there's bugs or
weird things, I know there's
some commented on Twitter that
return line feed handling confusing.
Are we going to wait
nine months for a fix
on that, stuff like that?
Or is this going to
update itself often? It'll be
far less than nine months.
Scott. It's going to be
a, I think we're trying
to release just every few
weeks. So I can't, I'm
not sure exactly when our
second release is going to
be. Our first one obviously
was yesterday. And, but I
know it's going to be
within the next couple of
months. And probably sooner than
that, I'm hoping that we
can get updated bits out
there. Cause I know we
have bugs. We've, we've found
it fixed three or four
already. And the reports are
coming, coming in of, of
things that just aren't quite
right or people are asking
for new features and stuff
like that. And we're really
excited to get back to
work of, you know, getting
these things fixed for people.
And we want to get
those fixes out to people
as soon as we can.
I think I had heard
that you guys are doing
sprints. You're doing scrum internally.
We do. Yeah. We work
in three week sprints. And
so we update our cloud
service every three weeks. We,
I guess don't really have
to. That's how it locked
cadence. The cloud service gets
updated on TFS that visual
studio.com. We're not really locked
to that for the, for
the provider. We could, you
know, we could release it
whenever we want to. So
it'll just show up on
the V6 extension gallery. So
we're working out internally what
that schedule is going to
be, how frequently we're going
to do it, but it's
going to be much, much
more frequent than, than updates
have gone out for before.
Yeah. The plan is roughly
every sprint boundary will push
a new version, but occasionally
we, you know, if we
spot a really nasty book
or a book that a
lot of people don't even
see, then we might want
to push one out sooner.
Or if we want to
take a, you know, if
it's been a big change
to the upstream library that
we want to, we want
to sync up with, I
know one of the guys
and he's currently working on
SSA support, for example, I've
been looking at too. I
mean, and that's pretty cool.
So that'd be a great
thing that we want to
pull in with that. So
a large piece of, of
intellectual property, the lawyers, it
that we want to pull
in. So when we take
a big contributions, you know,
but we new contributions into
the upstream library. We need
to go, you know, go
do some lawyery stuff and
just double check all the
IP stuff there before we
can ship it. So that
might sometimes delay, you know,
a release just to make
sure we got over all
the paperwork done. Actually speaking
of lawyery stuff, Philip is
working on live, get to,
which is committing open source
source code and doing poll
requests to a, an external,
not Microsoft managed GPL, licensed
product. And then also committing
code to a Microsoft product
inside the company. Is that
becoming more common or is
that, is that weird? Does
that put Phillip in some
kind of weird legal world
where he does or doesn't
work for Microsoft? Nope. Phillips
a full time engineer working
for Microsoft corporation. We to
do that, we had to
do a bunch of work
in terms of making sure,
you know, from an IP
point of view that the,
everybody was happy with that.
And so yeah, we did,
we've done a bunch of
where they were doing a
bunch of words and also
make sure that the, the
source code for they'd get
to stays in live, get
to, and that people don't,
you know, source Kodak and
accidentally think, Oh yeah, cool.
This is, this is a
bit random Microsoft COVID I
can just copy paste it
into, you know, the windows
code base or something like
that way. We, we, we
keep, we deliberately keep the
limit to code in the
Libya to project upon GitHub.
And when we, we check
in bind, rebuild of loop,
get to into the main
visual studio code base so
that, so that people don't
get confused. Hmm. So it's
just, it's not like revolutionary
anymore. You know what I
mean? I guess like maybe,
maybe I'll just when people
come on the show and
start talking about working on
open source code at Microsoft,
I'll just stop, stop making
a big deal out of
it. Because I don't know.
I mean, we do it
a lot in the Azure
and web team, but when
I hear about other teams
doing it and like, gosh,
you know, how do you,
how are you pulling this
off? Cause I know that
there's, I have literally had
conversations with groups of people
at Microsoft where they'll call
me and they'll say, my
boss doesn't want us to
use jQuery. And I'm like,
we ship it like it's
supported and relaxed. Like, no,
no it's open source. I'm
like, ah, you're missing the
point. I mean, obviously different
groups have different different exposures
to this develop a division.
You know, our customers are
developers. So we're generally a
bit more cool with this
kind of thing. You know,
a lot of the work
you guys have done as
has paved the way for
some of the things we
did, we did push boundaries
here. You know, this was,
there's a mixture of licenses
in the, in the code
base is GPL V2 code
or this linking exception is,
you know, a LGPL code.
There's a BSD code, MIT
code. There's all sorts of
stuff in there code that
people fought. Was it licensed
correctly and sent over. And
then when we did some
digging, turned out, we've got
to go ask the guy.
So we had to go
chase down the guys and
make sure that they were,
they were cool with it
being in lib get to,
and it's been, you know,
it's been a nontrivial piece
of work, but it's, it's
been worked, but everybody's been
incredibly supportive of and have
realized the importance of not
just to Microsoft, but also
to the wider development community.
And so everyone has been
amazingly supportive of it. It's
been, it's been a pleasure
to work on. Have you
had any negativity? Has anyone
said anything negative about this
other than it's about time?
You know, people have said
things. Yeah. There's like, it's
the control thing really? Do
you think, sell it any,
getting people's head around. I
remember having, I had a
conversation with somebody this morning
and he was like, so
how do we, how do
we, how do we like
get the, get a roadmap
agreed for this open source
library? How do we, you
know, do we sit who's
the manager, we sit down
with an, a meeting and
get on the backlog and,
and things like that. And
you have to kind of
explain how open source communities
work with people. That's what
do you think that, but
is that sort of what
you saw as well? Well,
I think that some people
might perceive some people who
are not using visual studio
might perceive that this is
that we Microsoft think that
this is the thing that
will bring them back. Right?
Let's say that someone's just
gotten mad and they've raised
quitted visual studio. And then
we come out with this
and we feel very happy
and we're kind of self-congratulatory
and we'd like, Hey, this
is great. And they're like,
Oh, it's Julia tomorrow to
use in VIM or whatever.
And they've moved off into
their own world. And my
answer is like, well, that's
great. You use the editor
that makes you happy, but
don't, don't hate on the
fact that there's a whole
bunch of people using visual
studio that would appreciate this.
You know, I don't really,
luckily, you know, I know
you get more comments on
your, on your blog than
I do on mine. So
I don't have to have
to deal with those kinds
of comments. Often people are
just generally been very supportive.
In fact, everybody, I reached
out. So, you know, when
we were going through and
going through the library and
talking with lip, get to
guys and talking to the
hook, guys, everybody's just been
incredibly supportive, the open source
communities, the people who work
in open source communities rather
than the people that, you
know, just use them and
talk about them. The people
that work in them every
day, they value, contribution over
anything else. Cause there's so
many people who just sit
and talk and Oh, you
should do this. Oh, you
should do that. And then
go away again. If you
come with a big gift
of code, then you're a
good guy. If you couldn't
with high quality code regularly,
then they start to trust
you. And, and you know,
so we just bring high
quality COVID hopefully, and that's
what folks can do for
sure. Yeah. I think that's
really, you nailed it. Like
that's, that's deep. The idea
that that's fine, you know,
talk is cheap. Show me
the code, right. I mean,
you know, there's the armchair
quarterback aspect of things where
it's like, yeah, you know,
I'm a user, I do
this, I do that. But
most open source projects just
want help. And if you're
doing something that moves the
ball forward, then they'll be
cool with you. Yep. You
can come with great ideas,
you know, go implement it.
It's open you, you go
right there and we'll, we'll
definitely commit it. And the
guys are great. And that's
how we cause you know,
one of the things we
were, we need to be
able to support this library,
wants it. It's going to
get, you know, get support
is, will be baked into
the next major version of
visual studio and every single
version, including express. And that
means we've got to support
it for the next 10
years. So we've got to
have a good degree of
confidence that we're going to
be able to fix the
code we need to fix
in this upstream, live, get
to library and keep it,
you know, that people aren't
gonna, you know, suddenly stop
taking our code. And so
we needed to build up
some trust in the community,
but also the community build
up trust in us. So
that's why fill it especially
has been contributing out to
the Libya to, for quite
a while and you know,
building that trust relationship there.
And then we were kind
of testing the waters to
see how they were reacting
to our co coming in.
And they were just in
again. Cause you know, hopefully
I looked at some of
the Phillips code and his
code, I down on the
sound, it looked good to
me, so, wow. This is
good stuff. And they seem
to think he was quite
good too. And you know,
they make committer. And then
we got a few of
the people that are committed
and they've just been incredibly
welcoming of us. They're really
good guy. Hmm. It's just
like you said, Martin, if
you move the ball forward,
you know, that's all it
takes, But it's also, you
can't rest on your laurels.
You know, I found that
yesterday, COVID, you know, we
ship Oh congrats card and
shipping guys. Right. And let's
look at this, I we'll
take a break for about
one day and then dive
right back in. Right. Exactly.
I was like, yeah, I
always feel bad because like,
I'm like always bug, bug
announcer guy, you know, like,
I'll always, like I called
your guys as I called
Jamie. And I was like,
Hey, congratulations, you should feel
really great. And here's 12
bugs and things that I
don't like. And I was
like, and I'm always feeling
guilty. I'm like, Oh, what
am I doing? Am I
doing it so mean? I
should, you know, who am
I? I didn't do anything.
You know, I didn't write
any of this stuff, but
here's, you know, here's a
bulleted list of things. I
don't like anyway, that's the
point of the preview. That's
why we released it. So
we're, we're, we're grateful for
those bugs and we're going
to take them and hopefully
fix as many as we
can for the next release.
Keep doing that same thing
as we add teachers. Cause
we'll make even more bugs
as we, as we get
rebates in there and we
get support and all those
things that Martin was talking
about that are coming. Yeah.
Well, one thing I will
tell you guys that I'm
really impressed with is that
I was afraid that I
would have to buy into
the entire way of thinking
of this get provider. Like
I would like In the
sense of, I had to
pick the command line or
get hub for windows or
visual studios get support. And
I can say that in
a couple of days that
I've been using it, I've
been able to switch around
just fine. And I'm still
keeping my PowerShell window open
and doing some stuff at
the command line, but then
I'm doing some stuff in
VMs and then occasionally I'll
just push sync and get
up for windows. And so
far I haven't had any
trouble. The only, the only
confusion I've had of any
kind, which is more of
a gift confusion is understanding
how the line numb line
endings work just in a,
in a, in a larger
sense. We know we have
more work to do with
line endings. Yeah. Yeah. And
I think that's less about
like your, your product and
it's released and more about
people on windows. Just need
to better understand get hub,
get line endings because I
know that all my pull
requests and get hub have
all the line and things
messed up and all the
white space messed up and
kind of getting that right
will be a community level
thing that everyone will be
able to work on. Some
stuff. There was some issues
with, with COLS. So line
ending conversion in lip, get
to early on and you
know, the, we fix, we
help fix those recently. So
depending on which tool you're
using in which version of
lip get to it was
using, it might have had
some issues there, but I
think they're all more or
less, more sort of nimble
Sharp. That could be another
thing you might need to
update. Well, if I go
into, get help for windows
right now and go tools
settings, when I'm sitting on
a repo, it actually says
this repositories line endings, aren't
normalized. It's saying that about
the repository, not about files.
And then it says the
best solution is to add
the recommended file, which is
going to be a get
attributes file and make a
onetime commit to fix line
endings. Yes. So they've built
that in then they've got
code that will literally spin
through cleanup line endings, make
them consistent, do a onetime
commit and then you're all
set to go. It might
be something we could, we
could do to, I was
just having this conversation with
Phil just last night actually.
And the we, so we
do when you create, if
you go to file new
project and create a, you
know, a new console application
in solution Explorer and, and
you say you want it
to be added to source
control and you pick get,
then we all, currently we
automatically add a, a gap
attributes file for you for
line endings. And we also
either get ignore file for
you. You know, it's got
all the, the common stuff
and we actually work with
a number open source project
that get hub have, which
is to, to build a
common set of get ignore
files that people there's a
new visual studio on that.
Well, that's great. And the
point here is not reinventing
the wheel, right? Exactly. You
don't want this get provided
a fight with, with, get
up for windows. They should
all use same settings for,
for line endings that are
appropriate, the same settings for
kid attributes and same settings
for, for good ignore. It's
all just love here in
the open source world. You
have to get attributes file,
maybe wrong in this release.
I'm not sure the default
one that we have in
there. There's some, some suggestion
that we didn't quite get
the right setting in there.
So I think we're going
to be, I know we
have an email thread internally
looking at that right now.
Cool. Well, this is very
cool guys. This is very
exciting. So people can go
up and they can, they
can Google with bang or
whatever and find, find the,
find this. They need to
make sure that they have
the update to installed. I've
got the stories up on
my blog. They can see
Brian Harry's blog and they
can also be rest assured
that this is going to
be built into visual studio
in future versions. And, and
then of course, TFS itself
will, you know, both TFS
and then TF versioning system
will, you know, continues to
live. And now you have
choices. You can go centralize,
you can go distributed. So
all it's all up to
you. Yep. Thanks for having
a phone call. Okay. Thanks
Scott. Very cool. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and we'll see you
again next week.